Hi, we're in the Smithsonian
American Art Museum's 19th century galleries.
My name is Scott.
I'm the lighting designer of this museum.
My job is literally to make these artworks
look as good as they can.
Is light visible?
It seems obvious.
Yes, light is visible.
But I can create the conditions as a lighting designer
so light appears invisible.
For example, right in front of me,
there's a giant bright beam of light.
And you wouldn't know it until I put my hands in front of it
or my face in front of it, and then it becomes apparent.
And that's so much of what my job is,
is to literally put the light where I want it
and take it away where we don't.
And that's what I'm expert in.
Well, I'm gonna press this button
and I'm going to transition this hallway
from kind of bright lighting to show you the magic that I do
when I take each individual spotlight
and I aim it very carefully at the artworks,
and it looks like this.
So, let's see, 1, 2, 3.
Do you see that?
That the artworks start coming up brighter and brighter.
And literally, the painting starts coming forwards.
You might be able to actually see the rainbow come out
in the the Niagara Falls,
and it's really much more dramatic.
This is the Alma Thomas Gallery
and one of my favorite paintings we have.
This is Alma Thomas' "Snoopy."
She actually named it after the cartoon,
but even more, the Lunar 10 Module was nicknamed "Snoopy,"
the module that would actually snoop around the Moon,
looking for the perfect place to land.
What is it about the light
that allows us to see this full range of color?
On this artwork, there's about three or four lights.
They're all basically the same kind of light.
It's what I call a blue-pump phosphor LED.
You go to a hardware store or your grocery store,
almost every single light bulb in there that isn't colored
that's putting out what you think of as white light
is a blue-pump phosphor LED.
Blue-pump phosphor.
What does that mean?
That means that the LEDs that inside are actually blue.
And then we take this yellow phosphor,
we lay it on top of the blue and it explodes in white light.
And it's exactly the same kind that we are using here.
So we smashed a few light bulbs.
Let me show you this one.
So when we smashed this light bulb,
it ended looking up like this.
And you see these LEDs? Actually starts with a blue LED.
The LED itself is blue.
It's kind of unbelievable.
And then this phosphor coating
will make it explode in white light.
Don't take my word for it.
Let me show you.
But first, I need to put on these goggles
because I'm gonna turn on some blue light,
which would be irritating to my eye.
So I'm gonna turn this LED on.
Ah, look at that.
So now the LED is on.
This is Alma Thomas's painting, "Snoopy,"
lit with just the blue part of the blue-pump phosphor.
The blue light is actually the blue LEDs
in all of these light bulbs.
I then take this phosphor piece of plastic
and I hold it closer and closer,
and you can see the phosphor creating white light.
And when it's completely exposed,
I'm now lighting the painting.
Well, with this light bulb.
It's much more effective with the exhibit lights above,
but this gives you a sense of how this works.
So it's the difference between blue light
and down-converting that blue energy
to a fuller, brighter, whiter light
that lets you see all the colors.
And if we light it with fuller, brighter, whiter light,
you'll get the full range of colors.
And it took a while for LEDs
to be able to create the full spectrum
so our eyes could see all the colors
that Alma Thomas is offering us in this painting.
(door clicking)
Welcome to my shop.
This is my laboratory.
Here, I'm gonna actually put on my safety goggles.
Okay, now what I've got here is a spectrometer,
and I'm gonna measure the spectra
of the blue part of this LED.
And there we go.
And if you take a look at the readout,
you'll see the blue spectral signature
peeking at 450 nanometers.
(bulb zapping)
So same bulb with the yellow shield put back in place.
So we're gonna measure it once the phosphor is in place.
(spectrometer beeping)
And there it is.
And now, so that blue peak that was so high,
if you actually look at the numbers,
the numbers should be, well, it's gonna be lower
'cause that blue has been made dimmer
'cause we're down-converting a lot of that blue energy
into white light.
And literally, blue and yellow make white.
(upbeat music)